This file contains decisions and assumptions that I made.

INSTRUCTIONS
For the step counter to work, the device must be held flat. Eg. how it would sit flat on a table.
Hold the device steady while you walk. You can watch on the display which actions are recorded as steps (see INTERFACE below).

CONFIGURATION SETTINGS
I chose some settings, eg. sample rate, median size filter, etc (described below) that were well suited to my walking style.
Spontaneous movements will tend to get recorded as steps. This could have been mitigated by applying other filters such as FFT.

AXIS CHOICE
I used the accelerometer Z axis measurements to measure steps since Z will translate to up/down motion when the device is in the instructed orientation.

MEDIAN FILTERING
For median filtering I use an ArrayList called recentValues to keep track of the most recent values. The number of values that I kept is defined in RECENT_VALUES_SIZE.
Each time the sensor event fires, I remove the oldest and add the newest value.
There is a variable called MEDIAN_FILTER_SIZE that specifies how many recent values to calculate the median.
Median filter size of 20 did a good job of smoothing out noise at the sample rate of 100Hz. Slower sample rates worked (eg. 20Hz, with smaller median filter) but the device handled 100Hz well so I kept it for more granularity.

DE-MEANING
I use the values stored in recentValues to calculate the mean of the recent values.
I use this mean and subtract it from the values that have a median filter applied.
This worked well in bringing values back to around 0 so I can use zero-crossing.
For de-meaning, I used the mean of the previous 25 values.

ZERO CROSSING
When the device is sitting on a desk the sensor still fires events and values will cross zero.
I set a threshold called ZERO_CROSS_THRESHOLD so that a value must go above that value and then below the that same (negative) value to be counted.
The upper and lower threshold that I used was +/-0.3. This worked well at counting steps based on my walking style. A slower, more careful walked may require a lower threshold and vice versa for a more aggressive walker.

INTERFACE
The UI shows the configuration settings in the top left and steps taken in the top right.
There are three plots - one for each accelerometer axis.
Within the plots, the colored line is the median filtered, de-meaned values for a particular axis. The grey line is raw data that was also de-meaned.
The Z (top) plot is the most relevant. The thresholds for zero crossing are shown by the horizontal white line. Each step is marked as a white dot.

